MSC: Handling incompatible room versions in clients (#4292)
matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals: proposals/4292-incompatible-client-room-versions.md

Author: Implementation requirements:
* [ ] Client
* [ ] Server

[MSC2244 (accepted)](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/2244-mass-redactions.md).

This proposal introduces a mechanism for clients to express their compatible room versions
to the server, so they are less likely to encounter issues when a user joins that room. The
user experience of showing "incompatible rooms" is left as a client implementation detail.

## Proposal

A new query parameter and response section are added to [`/sync`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/client-server-api/#get_matrixclientv3sync). Clients can add any number of `supported_room_version`
query parameters to indicate what room versions it supports to the server. This is preferred over
a filter to avoid clients needing to re-initial sync to change that filter, especially as new room
versions are introduced in future.

The server takes the unique set of `supported_room_version` parameters and determines which room
versions are compatible with that set. The compatible set may be larger than the supported set if
there are room versions which don't contain breaking changes for clients. These room versions will
be identified in the spec, and currently include the following:

> 

Reviewer: I was thinking about this in the sense of that we should definetively document problems clients have run in to in the past when we define the known ways a client might have to adapt to the existing 11 room versions.

> 

Reviewer 2: To respond to the *initial* comment here: [LibMatrix](https://cgit.rory.gay/matrix/LibMatrix.git/) breaks on any schema change, most room versions are currently *compatible* if no funky stuff has happened (ie string/bool PLs).

Generally, I tend to implement support for something only when either I need something or something breaks. I would be okay opting out of everything except the latest room version, though on the other hand having to update the SDK to add *explicit* support for a new room version can be quite annoying.

* [Room Version 2](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v2/) - No client changes.
* [Room Version 5](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v5/) - No client changes.

> * [Room Version 6](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v6/) - While the redaction algorithm did change,
>   it is not backwards incompatible for clients. The effects of redactions may be greater than intended,
>   however can be relatively easily fixed after a client bugfix.

Reviewer 3: The double negative here is confusing?

```suggestion
* [Room Version 6](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v6/) - While the redaction algorithm did change,
  it is backwards compatible for clients. The effects of redactions may be greater than intended,
  however can be relatively easily fixed after a client bugfix.
```

Or maybe "mostly backwards compatible"?

* [Room Version 7](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v7/) - Knocking was added, but not in a way
  which requires clients to implement it right away.
* [Room Version 8](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v8/) - Restricted join rules were added, but
  like in v7, not in a way which requires implementation.
* [Room Version 9](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v9/) - Adds to the redaction algorithm, making
  the effect similar to v6.
* [Room Version 10](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v10/) - Adds another join rule, similar to
  v7 and v8.

> * [Room Version 11](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.14/rooms/v11/) - Reduces the set of redacted fields on

Reviewer: V11 as far as I can recall removes the creator field from m.room.create and broke element iOS pre patch.
